url: http://swc.iitj.ac.in/general_faqs.php
title: General FAQs
depth: 2
========================================

How do we reach the IIT Jodhpur campus from Jodhpur
Airport/Railway Station/Bus Station?
IIT Jodhpur is located on the outskirts of the city of Jodhpur and is well
connected to other parts of country by road, rail and air. The Institute is located on National
Highway 65 at Karwar Village, about 24 km from the railway station and 25 km from the airport;
it takes approximately 45 mins and 40 mins to drive from airport and railway station to the
Institute, respectively.
It is connected by rail to major cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata,
Chennai, Hyderabad, Kota, Kanpur, Ahmedabad, Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Guwahati, Nagpur,
Lucknow and Jaipur.
There are daily flights from Delhi and Mumbai to Jodhpur. Air India and
Jet Airways operate the daily flight to each of these cities
Jodhpur is connected by mega-highway to major neighbouring cities, e.g.,
Jaipur, Jaisalmer, Udaipur and Ahmedabad. Deluxe and express buses ply to Jodhpur from Delhi,
Jaipur, Ahmedabad and Vadodara.
Reaching IIT Jodhpur
(a). From Airport to Campus
You can take a prepaid auto/taxi to the Institute, which is situated on National Highway 65,
Nagaur Road, Karwad. You may ask the driver to go past Mandore on Nagaur Road. This Campus
is about 28 km away from the airport
(b). From Railway Station to Campus
At Jodhpur Junction Railway Station, exit from Platform No.1 side.
You can take a prepaid auto/taxi to the Permanent Campus of IIT Jodhpur, which is situated
on National Highway 65, Nagaur Road, Karwad. You may ask the driver to go past Mandore on
Nagaur Road. The campus is about 26 km away from the Station.
How developed is the IIT Jodhpur campus at Karwad?
The permanent campus is built on 852 acres of land located about 20 km away
from the center of the city of Jodhpur on National Highway 65 towards Nagaur, N-NE from the center
of Jodhpur. The Permanent Campus of the Institute is the first fully-planned technical institute
campus in India. Our campus has different girls and boys hostels and a supermarket from where you
can buy daily needs. It has a library and a lecture hall building where all the classes are held.
There is a health centre and 24 hours ambulance service. There is a separate residential area and
a sports area where all the sports activities are done. We have different segments for different
What are the good places to hang out in Jodhpur?
Jodhpur is a tourist hotspot and hence one never runs out of place to roam about in Jodhpur.
To start with there is the majestical Mehrangarh fort which is around 28 km away from our
campus. Then we have Jaswant Thada and Umed Bhawan Palace. We also have Balsamand and Kaylana
lakes. We have bus service running between the Institute and various places in the City of
Jodhpur at regular intervals.So you can go to the city and have fun!!
How is the weather in IIT Jodhpur Campus like?
Jodhpur is known as the Sun City, for the bright and sunny weather it enjoys
throughout the year. It experiences dry and hot, a typical desert weather. The average annual
rainfall is approximately 32 cm. In summer, the temperatures range from a maximum of around 42 C
to a minimum of around 37 C. In winters, the maximum and minimum temperatures are around 27.5 C
and 10 C respectively. But it rains in July. We advise you to carry an umbrella with you.
Are there any wild animals in the IIT Jodhpur campus?
Snakes, scorpions, deer and other small creatures are spotted in the less
traversed parts of the campus in the night. However students are provided safety against these
creatures. Also each room is provided with a window net to avoid any small insects to get into the
room through windows.
What if I get lost in Campus?
Guards are there in every possible corner of the campus. They will help
you if you get lost in the campus. Additionally, a road map of the campus will be provided.
What kind of accommodation is available for the students?
Students will be allotted their hostel rooms as soon as they arrive
at the campus on the reporting date itself and not before the reporting date. All the rooms will be airconditioned.
Where will be the freshers be accommodated?
Freshers will be accommodated in the hostel buildings itself.
More details on room allotment will be provided on the reporting date.
What about once I reach? Will there be accommodation for
my parents and me?
No accommodation will be provided to the parents. However the students
will be staying in their hostel rooms that will be alloted to them as soon as report on
the reporting date, not before then.
Is accommodation/guest house available for parents in the Campus?
If not, can you please provide a list of nearby hotel?
No accommodation/guest house is provided for parents in the campus. Here is the
list of nearby hotels-
Mango Hotels Jodhpur Ratanada-
( 29 km from iit jodhpur )
Rajwara Palace, Opposite Government Veterinary Hospital, Ratanada Jodhpur,Ratanada,
Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342001
( 20 km from iit jodhpur )
Bikaner - Barmer Road, Near Over Bridge, Mandore, Jodhpur, Jodhpur,
Rajasthan 342304
( 30.1 km from iit jodhpur )
Airport Rd, Air Force Area, Air Force Area, Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342001
Hotel Residency Palace-
( 29.9 km from iit jodhpur )
Senapati Bhawan, Central Academy Road, near, Ratanada, Jodhpur, Rajasthan
Lords Inn Jodhpur-
( 30.7 km from iit jodhpur )
Plot No 1 C, Pokharan Bungalow, PWD Circle, High Court Colony Road,
Ratanada, Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342001
Shree Ram International-
( 30.4 km from iit jodhpur )
Near Panch Batti Circle, Residency Road, Air Force Area, Jodhpur,
Rajasthan 342011
The Fern Residency Hotel Jodhpur-
( 28.8 km from iit jodhpur )
1B/A, Shiv Mandir Road, Subhash Chowk, Ratanada, Subhash Chowk,
Ratanada, Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342001
OYO 1174 Shanti Bhawan Heritage-
( 29.1 km from iit jodhpur )
Opposite Railway Station, Ratanada, Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342001
Is there Ragging? Does IIT Jodhpur have policies against it?
No, Ragging is strictly prohibited and punishable in institute and
strict actions are taken if found so. Yes, IITJ do have strict policies against ragging
and we also have an Anti-ragging Squad to prevent any kind of ragging in the institute.
Can freshers bring laptops in the first semester? How is the internet facility on campus?
Yes one can bring laptops right from the first semester itself. However, it is optional. Proper
LAN and Wifi facilities are provided in all the hostel as well as academic buildings. Computer
centres are also there so that the computer systems are available to use if required by any student
but only during normal office hours
What are the bank and ATM facilities in the campus?
We have got an SBI bank branch and Canera bank branch within the campus and also an ATM.
What is the holiday schedule of IIT Jodhpur?
Saturdays and sundays are usually non working, and other holidays are mentioned in the academic
calendar of institute.Visit -
How about other extra-curricular activities and clubs
at IIT Jodhpur (i.e. about Student Gymkhana, IIT Jodhpur)?
Student Gymkhana
hosts its activities through seven student societies. Each Society comprises of
several clubs. Different club organize creative activities for
the all-rounded mental, physical, social and cultural growth of students.
Similarly, the student activities at the hostel level are organized through Students Regatta.
The seven societies are:
Sports & Games Society
Cultural & Literary Society
Design & Arts Society
Science & Technology Society
Academics & Careers Society
Campus Life Society
Student Elected Representatives Society
Two main fest namely varchas (sports festival) and Ignus (techo-cult-socio-festival)
are conducted apart from the intra college fest spandan, unplugged night, nimble(tech fest).
What about medical facilities?
The campus has a primary Health Center for providing routine health services to the patients
round the clock. Also, the Institute has its ambulance services available round-the-clock.
Besides the Health Center, the Institute has empanelled six hospitals in the city of Jodhpur.
The Institute has constituted a Medical Board consisting of Senior Doctors from the Medical
College and the AIIMS.
What are the scholarships/financial assistance available for studying
Merit-cum-Means (MCM) Scholarships are awarded to deserving (up to 25%) B.Tech. students.
In addition, the Institute provides financial assistance (Tuition fee waiver) to some students
with special financial circumstances. Follow these links for further information-
What is the procedure for getting the MCM scholarships?
Application forms are available with the Office of Students. Duly filled Application Form along
with requisite documents may be submitted to:
Coordinator (Students), Office of Students
For all category students following documents should be submitted
A photocopy of Annual Income Certificate (Form F16) of immediately preceding Financial Year,
as provided by the employer, as according to criteria Annual Income (of a student s
parents/guardian and his Family from all sources in the preceding financial year must not
exceed Rs. 6.0 Lakhs.
A copy of Income Tax Returns (ITR) for present Assessment Year as filed
with the Department of Income Tax.
Which are the companies that have offered placement to students?
Here is a list of a few companies that offered placements to the students in the past.
Private Industries
Finisar Corporation
Havells India Limited
Samsung India Software Centre
Tata Motors Private Limited
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Microsoft Corporation
Public Sector Enterprises
Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited
Indian Space Research Organization and many more
For more visit -
What kind of training do the students get for their internships?
Various sessions are organised by academics and carrier society as well as the Student Placement
Cell which lead to overall personality development, and help to get more clear view about industries
and to work in outside world. These trainings helps to get internships and placement.
Are there any mentorship program available for students?
Yes, one faculty member is allocated to a particular number of students, also newbies
are provided with a counselling team member to look after their basic queries and any kind of problem.
How many girls hostels are in IIT Jodhpur campus? Will all first
year female students get accommodation in the same hostel?
Currently there is three girls' hostel in IIT Jodhpur. Yes, all the first year female
students will get accommodation in the same hostel.
Is it safe for female students to roam around in the IIT
Jodhpur campus and nearby places?
Campus of IIT Jodhpur is secured throughout the day. The Institute has round-the-clock, dedicated,
professional security arrangement on Campus. Also, every hostel is manned with one security guard.
Entry and exit are registered of each visitor. Other institute like NIFT (National Institute of
Fashion and Technology) and NLU (National Law University) are present near to the IIT Jodhpur
campus and it is totally safe to roam around nearby places. However, it is advisable to stay within
the campus during odd timings.
Is there any club or something specially for female students?
(I.e. about Women Cell)
Yes, there is a special cell named women cell for female students. The Women Cell, IIT Jodhpur,
functions in accordance with the provisions contained in Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) ACT, 2013.
For further queries mail us at