url: https://iitj.ac.in/schools/en/eligibility-criteria-and-selection-process
title: Eligibility Criteria and Selection Process | School of Management & Entrepreneurship | IIT Jodhpur
depth: 2
========================================

Eligibility Criteria and Selection Process | School of Management & Entrepreneurship | IIT Jodhpur
Eligibility Criteria and Selection Process
The admission into the flagship Master of Business Administration (MBA) program of the
School of Management and Entrepreneurship (SME), leading to the MBA or the MBA-
Technology degree, is based on the criteria and process as indicated below:
During the first year, students complete foundational courses across various
disciplines. In the second year, they can select one of two tracks, leading to either an MBA
or an MBA-Technology.
Students completing their first year at SME, IIT Jodhpur, also have an opportunity to
pursue their second year at one of the partner B-schools abroad (SUNY-Albany Business
School, USA; Brandeis International Business School, USA; George Washington University,
USA; and Case Western Reserve University, USA), resulting in the
International DualDegree
1. Eligibility Criterion
A. Qualifying degree:
A minimum of a Bachelor s Degree or an equivalent qualification
awarded by any university established by an Act of the central or state legislature in India, or
by other educational institutions established by an Act of Parliament, or recognised as a
deemed university under Section 3 of the UGC Act, 1956. Additionally, the Bachelor s
degree or equivalent must entail a minimum of three years of education following the
completion of higher secondary schooling (10+2) or its equivalent.
Final-year students of the qualifying degree are also eligible to apply. Such
candidates, if selected, will be admitted provisionally on the condition that they meet all
requirements of the qualifying degree. The candidate must submit all certificates related to
the qualifying degree up to the current completed semesters/years. Additionally, the
candidate must provide a provisional certificate of completion of the qualifying degree within
two months of joining the program (if selected). Failure to meet these requirements will lead
to the cancellation of the candidature for the program.
B. Minimum percentage of marks in the qualifying degree:
(i) A minimum of 60% marks in aggregate (of all the years/semesters), which should be
equivalent to first class in the university conversion rule. This is applicable for
General/OBC/EWS categories.
(ii). 6.0 CGPA (Cumulative Grade Point Average) on a 10-point scale, which should be
equivalent to first class in the university conversion rule. This is applicable for
General/OBC/EWS categories.
The admission eligibility requirements may be relaxed for a qualifying degree by 5% on
point B(i) for SC, ST and PwD candidates.
The admission eligibility requirements may be relaxed for a qualifying degree by 0.5 (on a
10-point scale) on point B(ii) for SC, ST and PwD candidates.
The above relaxation shall be considered only as Qualifying Criteria.
A valid score in the Common Admission Test (CAT) 2025 conducted by the Indian
Institutes of Management.
2. Admission Process
The admission process for the MBA program will consist of two steps: initial shortlisting and
final shortlisting. The criteria for each step are outlined below:
A. Initial shortlisting
An initial shortlist will be created based on the composite score, calculated using the
following parameters and corresponding weights. Relaxations for all reserved categories will
be applied in accordance with the norms of the Ministry of Education, Government of India,
amended from time to time.
CAT Overall Scaled Score
Work Experience (Full Time)
Gender Diversity
CAT cutoffs may be applied to shortlist candidates, and these cutoffs could be based on the
overall CAT percentile or sectional CAT percentiles, or both. The cutoff percentiles will be
considered based on the number of applications received.
Work experience gained in coaching centres, self-proprietary, small-scale businesses
(like retail stores, Kirana stores, NGOs, or petrol pumps/gas stations) will not be considered
Work experience of 15 or more days in a month will be counted as 1 month, while
experience of fewer than 15 days will not be counted.
Experience letters and the first and last month s salary slips must be provided at the time
of the interview. Any claims of work experience not supported by pay slips or a formal
relieving letter from the respective organisation(s), as specified in the MBA program
application, will be deemed invalid and will result in disqualification from the entire selection
The cutoff date for calculating work experience is the day the application for MBA
admissions goes live.
No consideration will be given to any time spent as an intern, either during or after the
course of study, or any periods of apprenticeship (such as articleship) required for certain
professional courses, or any unpaid work undertaken in any organisation or institution.
The final discretion regarding the type, level, and extent of work experience lies with the
institute authorities.
B. Final shortlisting
(i) Candidates from all categories, shortlisted based on the composite score, will be called
for a Personal Interview (via virtual mode).
(ii) The final shortlist will be prepared based on the following criteria, with due weights
assigned to each component. Relaxations for all reserved categories will be applied in
accordance with the norms of the Ministry of Education, Government of India, amended from
Personal Interview
3. For International Applicants
As stated earlier in point 1 (
of Eligibility Criterion). The legality and
equivalence of the degree can be verified with the help of the Association of Indian
Universities (AIU).
B. Admission process:
Merit-based, based on a Graduate Record Examination (GRE)
score of 300 and above, or a Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) score of 600
and above, achieved within the last five years from the date of admission at SME, IIT
4. Candidates Joining while Retaining Employment with their Current Employer
Any candidate joining the MBA program at SME, IIT Jodhpur, who is on study leave,
sabbatical, or higher study leave, must submit a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from their
employer. The NOC should either state that the employer has no objection to the candidate
applying for a summer internship or final placement with another organisation, or confirm
that the candidate is required to undertake the summer internship exclusively with the
employer and return to the same organisation after completing the program.
5. Important Dates
Online submission of the application form begins on
13th January 2026
Online submission of the application form closes on
12th February 2026.
Extended: 10th March 2026
Interview schedule: Tentatively starts from
The above dates are only tentative and are liable to change.
IIT Jodhpur reserves the right to change, modify, add, or remove any shortlisting and
selection criteria, as well as any other information in the MBA program admissions
document, if deemed necessary at any time. Any disputes related to MBA admissions will be
subject to the jurisdiction of the competent courts within the territorial jurisdiction of Jodhpur
In case of any ambiguity or dispute regarding the interpretation, the decision of the IIT
Jodhpur shall be final and binding.
How To Reach IITJ
Institute Repository
Web Information Manager
Internal Committee
Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by
Digital Infrastructure & Automation
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the
Last Updated : 18 Mar 2026 - 05:44 PM