url: https://iitj.ac.in/mathematics/en/Research-Highlights
title: Research Highlights | Mathematics | IIT Jodhpur
depth: 1
========================================

Research Highlights | Mathematics | IIT Jodhpur
Research Highlights
Nonlinear coupled-mode framework for coupled systems: From exact Hamiltonian models to improved reduced-order formulations
General Casorati inequalities and implications for Riemannian maps and Riemannian submersions
Congratulation to Dr Kiran Meena for Published of research paper
Congratulations to Ajay Kumar and Dr. V.V.M.S. Chandramouli for acceptance of research paper
Congratulations to Gurubachan and Dr. V. V. M. S. Chandramouli for publishing their research paper in Discrete and Continuous Dynamical Systems - Series S (DCDS-S)
Congratulations to Gurubachan and Dr. V. V. M. S. Chandramouli for publishing their research paper in Applied Mathematics and Computation
Congratulations to Dr Kiran Meena for acceptance of research paper
Congratulations to T. Mukherjee and L. Sharma for acceptance of research paper On singular problems associated with mixed operators under mixed boundary conditions, in Journal of Fixed Point Theory and Applications
Congratulations to Mr. Lovelesh Sharma for being awarded the prestigious Raman-Charpak fellowship for the year 2024 by CEFIPRA in Mathematical Sciences
Congratulations to Shubham Garg and Dr Kirankumar R Hiremath for publishing their research paper in the Journal of Nonlinear Dynamics
Congratulations to Shubham Garg and Dr Kirankumar R Hiremath for publishing their research paper in the Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
Congratulations to Rakesh Kumar and Dr Kirankumar R Hiremath for publishing their research paper in the Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical.
Congratulations to Mr. Gurubachan for Best Poster Award at the PMRF Annual Symposium 2024 held at IIT Indore, in the broad area of Computer Science & Engineering, Data Science and Mathematics
Congratulations to Ms. Aishwaraya and Dr. V.V.M.S. Chandramouli for publishing their research paper in the Journal of Nonlinear Dynamics.
Congratulations to Ms. Aishwaraya, Ms. Divya Gupta, and Dr. V.V.M.S. Chandramouli for the acceptance of their research article in the Journal of Difference Equations and Applications.
Congratulations to Mr. Akanksha Rajpal, Mr. Sumit Kaur Bhatia, and Dr. Kirankumar R. Hiremath for the acceptance of their research article in the Chaos, Solitons & Fractals Journal.
Congratulations to Dr. Moumita Mandal, Mr. Arnab Kayal, and Dr. Gnaneshwar Nelakanti for the acceptance of their research article in the Journal of Applied Numerical Mathematics.
Congratulations to Mr. Rakesh Kumar and Dr. Kirankumar R. Hiremath for the acceptance of their research article in Journal of Mathematical Analysis and Applications.
Congratulations to Dr. Vivek vijay for the Best paper award in the 9th international conference in the series of youth 2025 on Envisioning India's future Growth, Innovationa, Sustainability, Happiness & Wellbeing
Congratulations to Dr. Dilpreet Kaur for the acceptance of their research article in Communications in algebra.
Congratulations to Dr. Chandramouli and Mr. Rohit for the acceptance of their research article in Journal of Statistical Physics.
Congratulations to Dr. Chandramouli and Mr. Rohit for the acceptance of their research article in Discrete & Continuous Dynamical Systems -A (DCDS-A).
Congratulations to Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar and his research group for the acceptance of their research article in Epidemiologic Methods
Congratulations to Dr. Moumita Mandal for the acceptance of their research article in journal of Applied Analysis and Computation
Congratulations to Dr. Tuhina Mukherjee for the acceptance of their research article in Advances in Differential Equations
Congratulations to Dr. Tuhina Mukherjee for the acceptance of their research article in Discrete and Continuous Dynamical Systems- Series A
Congratulations to Dr. Dilpreet Kaur for the acceptance of their research article in Journal of Algebra and its Applications
Congratulations to Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar et al. for the acceptance of their research article in the journal IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing
Congratulations to Ms. Sushmita Chandel (Ph.D. student) and Mr. Parkala Vishnu Bharadwaj Bayari (M.Tech.-Ph.D. Student) are selected for the ACM India Anveshan Setu Fellowship 2021. Also many congratulations to their supervisor Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar.
Congratulations to Dr. Moumita Mandal for the acceptance of their research article in the journal International Journal of Computer Mathematics
Congratulations to Dr. Vandana Sharma for the acceptance of her research article in the journal Communication on Pure and Applied Analysis
Congratulations to Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar and his research group for the acceptance of their research paper in the journal IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing
Congratulations to Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh for the acceptance of his research paper in the journal Physics of Fluids
Congratulations to Dr. Moumita Mandal for the acceptance of her research paper in Advances in Applied Mathematics and Mechanics
Congratulations to Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar and Mr. Somanka Maiti for the acceptance of their research article in the journal ACM Transactions on Internet Technology
Congratulations to Dr. Moumita Mandal for the acceptance of her research paper in The Journal of Analysis
Congratulations to Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar for the acceptance of his research article in the journal IEEE Multimedia
Congratulations to Dr. Vivek Vijay and Mr. Brajesh K. Shukla for the acceptance of their research article in the journal IEEE Xplore
Congratulations to Dr. Vivek Vijay and Mr. Brajesh K. Shukla for the acceptance of their research article in the journal Biomedical Engineering
Congratulations to Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh for publishing his research article in the journal Physics of Fluids
Congratulations to Dr. Moumita Mandal for the acceptance of her research article in the journal International Journal of Nonlinear Analysis and Applications
Congratulations to Dr. Sukhendu Ghosh for publishing a chapter in the book Mathematical Modelling and Scientific Computing with Applications.
Congratulations to Dr. Vandana Sharma for publishing her research paper in the journal Differential and Integral Equations
Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar is serving as Guest Editor for the Special Issue on "Recent Trends in Multimedia Analytics and Security" in IET Image Processing, March 2020.
Congratulations to Dr. Moumita Mandal for the acceptance of her research paper in Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics, November 2020.
Congratulations to Shraddha Choudhary, Ph.D. Student, working under the supervision of Dr. Kirankumar R. Hiremath, Associate Professor, for having received the Best Paper Award at IEEE TENCON 2019, September 2019.
Congratulations to Dr. Nil Kamal Hazra for the acceptance of his research paper Journal of Applied Probability, 2019
Congratulations to Dr.Moumita Mandal for the acceptance of her research paper in Mediterranean Journal of Mathematics, 2019
Congratulations to Satendra Pal Singh, Ph.D. Student, working under the supervision of Dr. Gaurav Bhatnagar for the acceptance of his research paper in IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 2019
Congratulations to Dr. Abhishek Sarkar for the acceptance of his research paper in Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh Section A: Mathematics, 2019
How To Reach IITJ
Institute Repository
Web Information Manager
Internal Committee
Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by
Digital Infrastructure & Automation
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the