url: https://iitj.ac.in/civil-and-infrastructure-engineering
title: Civil and Infrastructure Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
depth: 2
========================================

Civil and Infrastructure Engineering | IIT Jodhpur
Welcome to the Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
The rapidly urbanizing society and increasing quality of life demand reliable and intelligent infrastructure systems which are capable of catering to the societal needs at different scales from an individual to the community level. Consequently, the civil and infrastructure industry has undergone profound changes and is constantly evolving. However, the new-age designs and innovations in the civil and infrastructure industry can only be driven by a group of engineering graduates having multidisciplinary training and a sound understanding of emerging technologies. The Department of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering, IIT Jodhpur esatablished in January 2020. We started academics programs in the academic year 2020-2021. The department offers unique programs that incorporate and integrate the elements of conventional civil engineering with advanced transformative technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), cyber-physical-systems (CPS), digital twins (DT), and automated management and information systems. Additionally, a major thrust is also planned on the design, implementation, and maintenance of large-scale integrated infrastructure systems across different domains.
The focus areas of the department are :
Energy and Environment
Building Sciences, Safety, and Services
Applications of AI, IoT and CPS in Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Smart and Integrated Infrastructure
Urban Architecture and Planning
Construction Technology and Management
Transportation Engineering
Structural Engineering
Geotechnical Engineering
Water resources Engineering
Engineering Geology
"The Department strives to be an internationally renowned centre of excellence in education, research, and innovation with a major focus on sustainability and digitalization of infrastructure."
Develop unique courses in the field of Civil and Infrastructure Engineering through advanced UG and PG programs with a multidisciplinary perspective.
Establish high quality teaching and research facilities in the areas of smart, resilient, and sustainable infrastructure engineering to foster the needs of society.
Promote consilient research through application of AI/ML, cyber-physical-systems, digital twin and advanced visualization in the areas of Energy, Environment, Transportation, and Construction.
Promote innovative and entrepreneurial activities through intellectual property generation and transfer.
Nurture the potential of students to become future leaders in the Civil Engineering industry for leadership achievements, scientific breakthroughs and social welfare.
Department Brochure
Academic Calendar
IITJ at a Glance 2024 (English)
IITJ at a Glance 2024 (Hindi)
View all highlights
Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled "Hydrodynamics of turbulent flow in channels with submerged flexible vegetation canopy " in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Is
Congratulations to Dr. Sreejith Krishnan for publishing a research article titled "Co-calcination of kaolinitic clay and green liquor dregs to produce supplementary cementitious materials" in Journal
Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled "Effects of U-burrow bioirrigation on turbulence characteristics" in Journal of Hydraulic Research
Congratulations to Mr. Abhishek Jain and his supervisor, Dr. Debanjan Guha Roy, and Co-Supervisor Dr. Trishikhi Raychoudhury for publishing an article titled "Comparative efficacy of raw and modified
Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled "Shallow water hydrodynamics: Surge propagation and sill-controlled flows" in Physics of Fluids (Vol.36, Issue 12)
Congratulations to Mr. Shahiq Ahmad Wani and his supervisor, Dr. Ranju Mohan, for publishing an article titled "Digital payment adoption in public transportation: Mediating role of mode choice segment
Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled "The universal two-thirds law of pipeline scour" in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Issue 4
Congratulation to Prof. Subhasish Dey for publishing a research paper titled "Hydrodynamics of a rigid submerged vegetated flow" in Physics of Fluid, Volume 37: Issue 4
News & Newsletter
Ph.D. Admissions Result AY 2025-26 Semester II (Dec 2025)
Shortlisted Candidates for written Test and/or Interview of Ph.D. Program AY 2025-26 sem II
Ph.D. Admission (Re-open Announcement)
List of candidates Provisionally Shortlisted for M.Tech-Part Time Online Program (Bridge Engineering)
Result of Ph.D. Admissions Second Round, AY 2025-26 Semester I (July 2025)
One-day workshop on Sustainability of Cement and Concrete in the Indian Context
Congratulations Dr. Bhupendra for SERB International Research Experience (SIRE) for the year 2023-2024
A Indo-UK workshop on "Design of Foundation Systems for Offshore Wind Turbines - Indian Perspective"
How To Reach IITJ
Institute Repository
Web Information Manager
Internal Committee
Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by
Digital Infrastructure & Automation
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the
Last Updated : 09 Mar 2026 - 09:58 AM