url: https://iitj.ac.in/physics/en/physics
title: Physics | IIT Jodhpur
depth: 1
========================================

Physics | IIT Jodhpur
Welcome To The Department of Physics
The subject of Physics is inherently a natural science subject based on strong theoretical foundations and experimental findings. The subject closely intersects with almost all the branches of engineering and the current research activities of physics across the world made a huge impact on new, advanced, and emerging technologies. Keeping these facts into consideration, our Department is committed to imparting high-quality education based on a strong academic curriculum comprising elements of theoretical concepts, laboratory experiments, and most importantly hands-on experiments. The graduates of the Department are expected to have deep insight into the domain of Physics together with a strong bent of mind to pursue cutting-edge research and translate it into technology.
We offer a broad range of undergraduate and postgraduate programs. Our
4 Year BS in Physics with specialization
is a technology-oriented science program and offers specialization in physics-based emerging technology domains. The program also has the flexibility to convert into a
5 Year BS + M.Tech. dual degree
course. At the postgraduate level, we have four-degree programs viz.
M.Sc. (2 years), M.Sc.-M.Tech Dual Degree
in Physics and Materials Engineering. The dual degree program also has additional two specializations namely Functional Materials and Computational Materials Engineering. Finally, our
empowers scholars to pursue research in various domains.
The department has a very good blend of highly qualified young and experienced faculty members in the areas of advanced physics. The department is also equipped with a number of thematic laboratories which enable the students to carry out high-end and impactful theoretical and applied research in the following focus areas:
High Energy Physics and Astrophysics
Theoretical research in domains; Flavour physics, Astrophysics, Particle physics, Cosmology, and Dark matter and Dark energy. Experimental research in flavor physics with the Belle II Experiment.
Open Quantum Systems, Theoretical and Experimental aspects of Quantum Optics & Quantum Information, Quantum Field Theory, Quantum Statistical Mechanics and Quantum Cosmology.
Condensed Matter and Plasma Physics Group
Experimental and Theoretical Research on Molecular electronics, Organic electronics, Cold Plasma Technologies and applications, Energy Storage, Solar cells, Light emitting diodes, Solar water splitting, Soft Matters, Statistical Physics, Computational Physics, Multiscale Modelling, Phase ordering dynamics, Glasses, Amorphous solids, Polymers and Solid Electrolyte materials, Physics of Living Matter, Active Matter Physics, Functional Materials, Materials Design and Engineering, Nanomagnetism and Multiferroics.
Optics and Photonics
Theoretical and Experimental Research in Nano Photonics, Light in disordered media, Ultrafast Optics, Nonlinear Optics, Topological Singularities, Specially Optical Fibers, Photonic sensors, Time Dynamic systems, Terahertz generation and application, Transient and Steady-state Spectroscopy, Bound state in the continuum, Disorder Photons and Light Matter Interaction and Ceramic materials for high energy laser applications.
Candidates interested in pursuing Ph.D., please go through the Research groups and visit the individual
faculty's home pages
application can be submitted with this link
The department is equipped with high-end research equipment which includes SQUID magnetometer, Physical Property Measurement Systems (PPMS), Raman Spectrometer, and Scanning Tunnelling Microscope (STM) besides a host of other advanced characterization equipment which is available at the Centre for Research & Development of Scientific Instruments (
The department is having close collaboration with a number of National and International agencies including DRDO, ISRO, DAE, CSIR, DST, and SERB. Department Faculties also have collaborations with various Institutes of National and International repute, namely TIFR, IIT Bombay, IIT Gandhinagar, IIT BHU, Central University of Rajasthan, University of Montreal, Canada, University of Warsaw Poland, Brookhaven National Laboratory USA, ETH Zurich Switzerland, IMEM Parma Italy, INFN Turino, Italy, CMU Pittsburgh USA, Belle II KEK Japan etc.
Our Social Media Connect
Contact Numbers for New Students
(for any queries regarding registration, accessing facilities etc..)
Phone Numbers: +91-291-2801602 (Office of Physics)
View all highlights
Prof. Ram Prakash from the Department of Physics, IIT Jodhpur has been elected as the President of the Plasma Science Society of India (2026 2028)
Mr.Shubham Chamola has received the prestigious Commonwealth Fellowship to work at the University of Cambridge, UK for a duration of one year (Nov 2024-Oct 2025)
Dr. Yogeshwar Nath Mishra has co-invented the World s fastest single-shot wide-field microscope with his collaborators at NASA-Caltech in USA and FAU in Germany. They published their work in the journ
Jitendra Yadav has received the Galileo Galilei Poster Award at the International Symposium on Beyond Li-ion Batteries held in Padova, Italy (Sept 1-6, 2024).
Ph.D. students, Sipra Mohapatra and Hema Teherpuria, have been awarded the prestigious APS travel grant and Best Poster award for HEMA at CCP2024
Our PhD student Miss Surbhi Ramawat has received the best poster award with a cash prize of 250/- Euro in one of the globally renowned conference on thermoelectric materials.
Ph.D. Admissions in Physics AY 2025-26 SEMESTER-II (DEC 2025)
List of Candidates for Ph.D. Admission - Academic Year 2025 - 26 (Semester I)
List of Shortlisted Candidates for PhD Admission AY 2025-26, Department of Physics
Seminars & Meetings
Diving Deep into Physics Seminar Series :"Quantum Superposition, Entanglement, and Applications" by Prof. Natthi Lal..
Departmental Seminar : "Thin film devices on conventional and green substrates" by Dr. Deepa Bhatt, NOI Techpark, Free Univ..
Diving Deep into Physics Colloquium Series: " From Empirical to Machine Learning Potentials: Modeling Liqu..
Diving Deep into Physics Colloquium Series: " 3.6m DOT and Energetic Cosmic Transients" by Dr. Shashi Bhushan Pandey..
Diving Deep into Physics Colloquium Series: "The amazing world of gravitational wave from binary neutron star merger" by Prof. Ritam..
How To Reach IITJ
Institute Repository
Web Information Manager
Internal Committee
Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by
Digital Infrastructure & Automation
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the
Last Updated : 27 Feb 2026 - 02:26 PM