url: https://iitj.ac.in/itep
title: Integrated Teacher Education Programme | IIT Jodhpur
depth: 2
========================================

Integrated Teacher Education Programme | IIT Jodhpur
Welcome To The Integrated Teacher Education Programme
The Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP), as envisioned by the National Education Policy, 2020, offers a unique opportunity for the IIT ecosystem as a whole to directly contribute to shaping the next generation of leaders. IIT Jodhpur is proud to announce the commencement of ITEP (BSc-BEd) for Secondary Stage with Major in Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics from 2024.
The Secondary Stage (classes IX to XII), which represents a critical point of transition between school and higher education, deserves special attention in the Indian context. The significant challenges at this stage include the issue of retaining students in the school system, streaming them according to their innate potential and interests, and preparing them to acquire the necessary technological and discipline specific exposure for future academic and career choices.
The Jodhpur Model of Teacher Education envisions the all-round development of the Graduate Teacher for the Secondary Stage who will have (i) strong technological, pedagogical and content knowledge (ii) motivation for self-improvement and self-organization (iii) commitment to constitutional values and fundamental duties (iv) strong ethics and values (v) passion and drive for innovation in teaching (vi) effective communication skills (vii) dedication to lifelong learning, and (viii) empathy for students and commitment to their well-being.
Proposed Jodhpur Model of Teacher Education: Vision of the all-round development of a Graduate Teacher for the Secondary Stage
Applications for the NCET Examination 2026 are open from 12 February to 10 March 2026. For more information, visit
Message From The Director
Prof. Avinash Kumar Agarwal
Director, IIT Jodhpur
Greetings from IIT Jodhpur!
The most significant challenge for the transformation of school education is the absence of qualified and competent teachers. It is estimated that India has a shortfall of more than 10 lakh school teachers. The National Education Policy 2020 reminds us that teachers are critical to the goal of nation-building, and achieving a just and prosperous society, rooted in our cultural values and civilizational history. In this context, the new Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP) is a vital step that we as a nation will be taking towards building a new kind of education system. This will bridge the rich values, traditions, history and civilizational legacy of India with the futuristic potential offered by new technologies for sustainable, inclusive and enriching life on planet Earth.
The ITEP Program at IIT Jodhpur is an opportunity for all students who want to be the kind of school teachers who will make a difference in STEM education at the Secondary Stage. An important need of our nation is to equip learners in the age group 14 to 18 years with the necessary modern skills and competencies to participate in a rapidly transforming global knowledge ecosystem, shaped by disruptive technologies including artificial intelligence. Our present age requires creative solutions to pressing problems of human rights, sustainable development and global well being. This means thinking out of the box and moving away from traditional models of school education, which reward rote learning and kill the innate creativity of children.
My dynamic team of faculty members will work to create the next generation of teachers whose knowledge and pedagogy will free the creative imaginations of their students, leading to novel solutions for Viksit Bharat and global development. Excellence in disciplinary knowledge, cutting edge curricula, intellectual freedom and deep awareness of the local and national needs are the hallmarks of pedagogy at IIT Jodhpur. I believe that this ethos of the institute will equip school teachers who are passionate about teaching and learning. We want to develop teachers who possess a strong sense of respect to Fundamental Duties, faith in constitutional values and pride in our Indian ethos. This will give them an energy to work passionately and tirelessly to understand and solve problems at the local, national and international levels.
We invite you to be part of this journey as we develop a Jodhpur model of teacher education that will advance the pursuit of knowledge, wisdom and truth in the nation and the world at large! I have faith that this will be an unforgettable journey for everyone involved in this process.
Program Objectives
To ensure that future educators are equipped with the skills, especially in the area of science, technology, and pedagogy, which are required to adapt to evolving educational needs, the objectives of the 4-year Integrated BSc-BEd Program (ITEP) for the Secondary Stage at IIT Jodhpur include:
Developing necessary competencies in graduates for teaching at the secondary stage of school education (classes 9 to 12) (as envisioned by NEP and NCTE Curriculum Framework, p.18)
Capacity building in the area of Science & Technology Education in India
Developing pedagogical skills among teachers in India
Enabling technology integration in the classroom for future learners of India
Building connection with the society and inculcate the required communication skills
Expected Graduate Attributes
After completing this programme, the graduate would have:
A deep understanding of educational theories and principles, suitable for teaching at the secondary stage of school education (classes 9 to 12) (as envisioned in NEP and NCTE Curriculum Framework, p.18)
Training in attributes specific to teaching in Grades (9-10) and for Grades (11-12)
A comprehensive knowledge of the subject to be taught
Skillset to integrate technology into teaching to enhance learning experiences
An understanding of various forms of assessments to measure student progress
A commitment to continuous professional development
A commitment to build positive connections with the surrounding society through their teaching practice and model this to their future students by example
The ITEP is being coordinated at IIT Jodhpur by their Center for Education & Technology for Education (CETE) and has involvement of faculty members across various disciplines. Know more about the CETE at
Credit Structure
The distribution of credits for the programme across 4 years is as follows.
An induction programme at the start of each year
Specialization Compulsory
Specialization Elective
Foundations in Education
Programme Compulsory
Ability Enhancement & Value-Added courses
Programme Compulsory
Stage-specific content -cum-pedagogy
Programme Compulsory
School Experience
Programme Compulsory
Community Service
Design and Computational Thinking
Programme Compulsory
Design Credit Project
How To Reach IITJ
Institute Repository
Web Information Manager
Internal Committee
Copyright 2025 All Rights Reserved | This Portal is Owned, Designed, and Developed by
Digital Infrastructure & Automation
N.H. 62, Nagaur Road, Karwar, Jodhpur - 342030, Rajasthan (India)
For any comments/enquiries/feedback, please email the
Last Updated : 18 Feb 2026 - 10:34 AM