url: https://events.iitj.ac.in/IHMTC2025
title: IHMTC-2025
depth: 1
========================================

IHMTC Conference Highlights
Click here to view IHMTC-2025 booklet
Latest Announcements
IHMTC-2025 booklet has been updated with presentation slots.
Tentative bus schedule and bus route has been updated.
Oral presentation template has been updated in the Presentation Guidelines section.
Google form to collect arrival and departure details has been updated in the accomodation section.
Accommodation details have been updated.
IIT Jodhpur will be organizing the 28
International ISHMT-ASTFE Heat and Mass Transfer Conference (IHMTC-2025) during December 9-12, 2025. The conference series is jointly organized by the Indian Society for Heat and Mass Transfer (ISHMT) and the American Society of Thermal and Fluids Engineers (ASTFE).
Welcome to IHMTC-2025
The role of heat and mass transfer in modern engineering applications and industrial processes is quite significant. Cutting-edge research in thermal management, additive manufacturing, green buildings, and micro and nano-scale transport phenomena in biological systems are becoming popular along with traditional fields such as power plants, internal combustion engines, refrigeration and air conditioning. Over the world, intensive research is in progress on all aspects of fluid flow and heat transfer using theoretical, computational, and experimental approaches. The goal of this conference is to gather scholars from all over the world to present advances in the fields of transport phenomena and to foster an environment conducive to exchanging ideas and information. This conference will also provide an ideal environment to develop new collaborations on the fundamentals, applications, and products of the mentioned fields. This conference includes invited keynote talks by distinguished experts from industry and academia (across the globe) and many parallel technical sessions spread over four days. This would serve as a platform for young researchers to interact with academic experts and get motivated further to produce high quality research
List of previous IHMTC -
The Indian Society for Heat and Mass Transfer (ISHMT) has been acting as a nodal agency in India stimulating researchers engaged in various areas of heat and mass transfer and bringing them together for fruitful interaction and exchange of ideas. The ISHMT organized the first National Heat and Mass Transfer Conference at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras in 1971. Subsequently, the conference has been held once every two years at different places across the country. In these conferences, many well-known experts from abroad participated, exchanged technical information, and shared their expertise with the Indian researchers. To foster more significant interaction with the researchers from overseas, ISHMT has started collaborating with other premier professional societies. During the period of 1994-2013, ISHMT and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) had jointly organized this conference. After that, ISHMT and American Society of Thermal and Fluids Engineers (ASTFE) are jointly organizing this conference..
To know more about ISHMT, kindly visit
Indian Society for Heat and Mass Transfer (ISHMT)
About IIT Jodhpur
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur was founded by the Ministry of Human Resource Development in 2008 in order to promote technology education and quality research in India. IIT Jodhpur - A pearl in the desert, the 2
generation institute currently functions from its sprawling campus of 852 acres on National Highway 62, north-northwest of Jodhpur towards Nagaur. This campus has been meticulously built and envisioned to be a symbol of academics - simple, but profound. The campus earned 5-star rating by the Green Rating for Integrated Housing Assessment (GRIHA) council for its scrupulous planning. Thermally comfortable smart buildings with GRIHA 4/5-star compliant buildings and fully central AC rooms. The main goal of the Institute is to utilize cutting-edge technology for the betterment of India's economic and social growth. IIT Jodhpur is guided by three key principles: promoting academic excellence in teaching and learning, advancing research through scholarships, and fostering creative accomplishments that have practical applications in industry. The Institute is committed to developing technology through a multidisciplinary approach, and academic degree programs are organized into departments, while coordinated research efforts are managed through technology centers. In addition, the Institute has set up numerous advanced research laboratories for undergraduate, graduate, and research students to conduct both basic and advanced research. Learning is facilitated everywhere, at any time, with the wireless ICT backbone.
To know more about IIT Jodhpur, kindly visit
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
Platinum Sponsors
Our Media Partners