source: https://iitj.ac.in/PageImages/Gallery/02-2025/ACADEMIC-PROGRAMMES-638755723291553278.pdf
type: academic_regulation_pdf
========================================

ACADEMIC PROGRAMMES
Rules & Regulations
For Student s enrolled from July 2019 onwards
Indian Institute of Technology Jodhpur
extra-curricular activities on campus.
PG)/Associate Dean (Academics- UG) will discharge the responsibilities of Dean (Academics).
continuously monitored
modifications/ improvements as and when necessary.
2. ACADEMIC SESSION
summer term as per the following timelines:
Semester I: From the fourth week of July to the last week of November
Semester II: From the last week of December to the last week of April
Summer Term: From the middle of May to the middle of July.
2.1 Academic Calendar
may permit the continuation of registration on payment of an appropriate fine.
the Faculty advisor till the last date of registration.
withdrawn course will be mentioned in the Student s grade card with a letter grade W .
the courses in that semester.
on approval of the Dean.
4. TEACHING AND EVALUATION
Medium of Instruction
The medium of instruction is English.
Course Structure
parameters related to course numbering scheme.
Course Code Description
Indicates Fractal
This code will be
by the office of
Examples of course codes
Engineering Mechanics
Fractal 1: Robot Modelling
Fractal 2: Motion Planning and Programming
Fractal 3: Robot Control
Departmental Code
Department/Platform/Office
Mechanical Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering
Electrical Engineering
Civil and Infrastructure Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Bioscience and Bioengineering
Metallurgical & Materials Engineering
Humanities and Social Science
Interdisciplinary Research Platforms (IDRPs)
Digital Humanities
Space Science and Technology
Internet of Things and Applications
Autonomous unmanned vehicles (AUV)
Quantum Information and Computation
Cognitive Science
Smart Healthcare
Office of Academics
Office of Students
Types for Courses
Lecture courses (other than lecture hours, these courses can have Tutorial and
Practical hours, e.g. L-T-P Structures 3-0-0, 3-1-2, 3-0-2, 2-0-0, etc.)
Practical / Practice-based courses (where performance is evaluated primarily
on the basis of practice, practical or laboratory work with LTP structures such
as 0-0-3, 0-0-4, 1-0-3, 0-1-3, etc.)
Project-based courses (e.g. Major, Minor, Mini Projects)
Non-graded core component
Independent Study
Engineering innovation
Engineering Design (Graded and Non-Graded)
Level of Courses, category and credit requirements
Credit Requirements
Courses for B.Tech. Programmes
B.Tech. (Cr>=38)
B.Tech. (Cr>=75)
Courses of M.Sc. and M.Tech.
Programmes (NOT open to B.Tech. and B.Tech. +
M.Tech. Dual Degree)
Courses for M.Sc. programmes
B.Tech. (Cr>=75)
M.Tech. (Cr >= 0)
Courses for M.Tech. programmes
B.Tech. (Cr>=100)
Advanced courses for M.Sc.
Advanced courses for M.Tech. and Ph.D.
programmes, An 800 level course should have 700
level course as a pre-requisite
M.Tech. (Cr>=14)
Approval of Courses
courses may be offered during any semester/summer term.
by the Department hosting that Program.
Categories of Courses
Courses offered can be from one of the following categories:
a) Regular course:
under elective or core/compulsory categories.
course as per the following section.
b) Self-study Course
self-study course are as follows:
is not on campus during the course with prior approval of the competent authority.
the course with prior approval of the competent authority.
student is made by the Dean (Academics).
award of letter grade at the end of the semester.
A self-study course will appear with the approved course title on the transcript.
Not exceeding 10% of the total graded credit can be opted as a self-study course.
c) Independent Study Course
Self-disciplined
independent-study
independent-study
program and will appear with the title Independent Study on the transcript.
independent-study course to a student is made by the Dean (Academics).
part of the course.
of letter grade at the end of the semester.
Conduct of Courses
The instructor must keep all evaluation records in his custody at least for the next six months.
discussion-oriented
of the specialized facility will be conducted through direct contact.
Teaching Assignments
consultation with the Head of that Department.
Auditing of Courses
Card of the student.
Attendance Requirements
cut-off for C grade in a course.
subject in each semester.
must have at least one examination.
course) shall be between 40% to 60% of the total weightage of evaluation measure.
Evaluation policy has to be known from the first day of the class.
quizzes, assignments, tutorials, laboratory work, term papers and projects.
member shall upload grade on the portal as per the stipulated time schedule.
Letter grade and its equivalent grade points
Satisfactory in Course
Thesis Continuation
A detailed description of some of the grades is given below:
awarded for projects /seminars.
however, these are taken into account in the calculation of the SGPA.
are not considered in the calculation of SGPA or CGPA.
audit or non-graded courses.
Procedure for declaration of results
The following procedure would be followed for declaration of results and timeline would be as
per Academic Calendar.
Evaluation scheme to be displayed by instructors at the start of a semester:
Display of answer sheets and all scores by instructors.
Finalization of grades by instructors
department/institute
department/institute-wide
moderation committee
Display of grades by Instructors
of the department
Approval of Grade by the Dean (UG/PG)
Finalization of results by the Dean (UG/PG)
Approval of results by the Chairman Senate
reconsideration,
Grade Point Averages
Semester Grade Point Average
, then the SGPA is given by the following formula:
courses in which S/X grade is awarded, registered in a particular semester.
5.3.2 Cumulative Grade Point Average
courses in which S/X grade is awarded, obtained in all completed semesters.
The SGPA and CGPA calculation are based on credits earned/completed at IIT Jodhpur alone.
6. GRADE CARD AND TRANSCRIPT
earned in other academic institutions in a particular semester, if applicable.
7. WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS IN SPECIAL CASES
such exceptions have to be reported to the Senate.
8. MAKE-UP EXAMINATIONS
the following categories:
period of the missed quiz/exam.
before they proceed for such consultation.
of the Institute Hospital.
endorsed by the parent/guardian.
circumstances, prorating can be done for the missed examinations or attendance.
A. REGULATIONS FOR UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES
9. UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMMES
Minor/Interdisciplinary
Entrepreneurship
Entrepreneurship or Department Area Specialization in Engineering innovation.
10. UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS
10.1 B.Tech. Programmes
10.1.1 General Admissions
admission are specified in the JEE Information Brochure brought out every year.
10.1.2 Cultural Exchange Programmes
Indian High Commission/Embassy in their respective countries.
10.1.3 Change/Enhancement of Program
Minor/Interdisciplinary
Minor/Interdisciplinary
Major/Department
Entrepreneurship,
Entrepreneurship
Entrepreneurship
given in Section 18 (branch change) and Section 11.2 (for all others).
10.2 Reservation Policy
The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed.
10.3 Student Exchange Program
one/two-semester
per the pre-approved arrangement (including an MoU) between the institutions.
coursework/research
coursework/research
may use other academic facilities as per pre-approved arrangement (including an MoU).
the course work or research work through a pre-approved arrangement including an MoU.
documents/material
committee for its approval. Moreover,
his/her transcripts.
institutions in a particular semester.
earned/completed
considered for award of prizes.
calculation of minimum required credits for the award of the degree.
10.4 Visiting Students
academic facilities.
regular students of the Institute.
10.5 Cancellation of Admission
information or suppressed relevant information while seeking admission.
10.6 Fulfillment of Admission Requirements
approve all admissions to the Undergraduate Programmes.
11. CURRICULUM AND ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS
LTP-structure and credit assignment.
Distribution of contact and beyond
1 hour of Lecture
1 hour of Tutorial
1 hour of Project#
#Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion,
11.2 Capability Linked Opportunities for Undergraduate Students
A B.Tech. student can opt for one of the following capabilities Linked Opportunities
Major/Department Specialization
Interdisciplinary Specialization
B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree
11.2.1 Eligibility Criteria for opting
(a) Major/Department Specialization, Minor/Interdisciplinary Specialization
semester to opt for capability linked opportunity.
(b) B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree in the chosen specialization
Major/Department
Minor/Interdisciplinary
earned minimum 134 Credits with at least 6 CGPA at the end of the 7th semester.
11.2.2 Minimum Credit requirements
(a) Major/Department Specialization, Interdisciplinary Specialization and Minor
Major/Department
Minor/Interdisciplinary
form of course overload. This will be indicated on the degree.
Major/Department
Interdisciplinary
Specialization and Minor
prescribed courses for their degree.
(b) B.Tech. + M.Tech. Dual Degree in the chosen specialization
Interdisciplinary
Major/Department
Interdisciplinary
Specialization excluding the project credits.
Course Categories and Academic requirements for various programmes are given in the table
Course Categories and Academic requirements
Institute Core (I)
Engineering (IE)
Programme Linked (L)
Programme Core (P)
Programme Electives
B.Tech. Project (PP)
(Major/Minor/Department/
Interdisciplinary) (S)
M.Tech. (M) in Minor,
Interdisciplinary Area
Open Electives (MO)
Engineering (NE)
Design/Practical
Total Graded+Non Graded
# Must not include any project course
11.4 Maximum Duration of the Program
The maximum duration for the completion B.Tech. Programs shall be 14 registered semesters.
11.5 Academic Performance Requirements
end of the second registered semester is specified in the following table:
Criteria for continuation at the end of the second registered semester
Minimum number of credits to be earned
Minimum for Continuation
Students should also involve in the process.
requirements. The re-start will be indicated on the transcript.
11.5.1 Criteria to put a student on Academic Probation
any registered semester, then he/she will be placed on academic probation.
under a senior student.
his/her registration will be terminated.
shall be given to him/her and intimation be sent to the parents.
total duration allowed for the program.
11.6 Assistantship for B.Tech. -M. Tech. Dual-degree Programmes
continuation of assistantship, a student will need to secure SGPA of 6.5.
12. UG REGISTRATION
during this period.
these courses to fulfil some of their graduation requirements in advance.
patterns also remain the same as during the regular semesters.
12.2 Limits on Registration
An undergraduate student should register for a minimum of 12 credits in a semester.
The maximum number of credits permitted for a UG student in a semester is 25.
An undergraduate student may be permitted to register for a maximum of four credits
per semester for independent-study or self-study course
12.3 Exceptions to Regular Rules regarding Academic Load
may register for a maximum of 16 credits.
and satisfy one of the following criteria:
complete all the requirements of their programme.
12.4 Change of Registration from B. Tech. Programme to B.Tech.- M.
Tech. dual degree Programme
changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate.
13. EVALUATION OF SPECIAL UG ONLY COURSES
13.1 B.Tech. Project Evaluation
that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy.
The evaluation will be based on the report and a viva-voce examination on the project.
DUGC will form the evaluation criterion and declare it to students.
13.2 Composition of Department Undergraduate Committee (DUGC)
13.2 Engineering Innovation
which will be evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by DUGC.
Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded.
13.3 Design Project Evaluation
evaluated by duly appointed examiner(s) by DUGC.
and S or U grade is awarded.
Conduct and Evaluation of B.Tech. -M. Tech Dual Degree Project
students and supervisor(s).
The evaluation criterion would be the same as Section 25.
13.5 Entrepreneurship Project
Entrepreneurship,
(Academics-UG)/Associate
Entrepreneurship and a letter grade is awarded.
14.1 Termination from B.Tech. Program
A student may be terminated from the B.Tech. Programme by AC, if the student
Is absent without authorized leave of absence for eight weeks or more in a semester; OR
Fails to report and register by the last date of registration without a bonafide reason; OR
constituted for the purpose; OR
Is on academic probation for two consecutive semesters.
14.2 Appeal against Termination
reconsideration.
any further appeal for review, unless substantial additional information is brought to its notice.
approval of the DUGC.
15.1 Mid-Semester Recess and Vacation
the Academic Calendar.
15.2 Short Leave
medical grounds, and for 5 days for any other valid reason.
15.3 Semester Withdrawal
the maximum permissible duration of the programme for the student.
15.4 Academic Leave
abroad. Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as
Experimental work/training using specialized facility not available at IITJ
Entrepreneurship initiative
Engineering innovation
All such requests must be evaluated and approved by DUGC before the leave is granted.
semesters on academic leave.
the DUGC and approved by the Course Equivalence Committee.
16. BRANCH CHANGE
semester only, provided the student satisfies the following criteria:
Secured a CGPA, at the end of the second semester, of:
Greater than or equal to 7.0 for SC/ST and PD applicants
Greater than or equal to 8.0 for other applicants
non-graded courses).
No backlog at the end of the second semester.
The student should have no disciplinary action against him/her.
criteria is given as per rule (a).
shall be resolved on the basis of JEE ranks of such applicants.
the sanctioned strength and should not go above
of the sanctioned strength.
of entry to IIT Jodhpur.
the end of the second semester will be allowed to move to a branch of his/her choice.
17. REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADUATION
A student is deemed to have completed the requirements for graduation if she/he has met the
conditions laid down in Clauses 17.1 to 17.4.
17.1 Minimum Duration of Residence
Minimum Duration of Residence is given in the table below:
Minimum residential requirement
Minimum Duration of Residence
B. Tech. (including
minor/department/interdisciplinary area
B. Tech. M.Tech.
the minimum credits as per Table 11.2 in Section 11.3 for all degrees
17.3 Payment of Fees and Dues
deemed necessary by Dean (Academics).
17.4 No case of Disciplinary Action
any case of indiscipline pending against her/him.
17.5 Completion of engagement in NCC, NSS or NSO
extra-curricular
of at least two semesters during their B.Tech. Program.
17.6 Award of Degrees
17.6.1 Provisional Certificate
Interdisciplinary Specialization wherever applicable.
17.6.2 Degree Certificate
Interdisciplinary
Specialization wherever applicable.
pertaining to its B.Tech. Programs.
B. REGULATIONS FOR POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMMES
19. POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMMES
Master of Science (M.Sc.)
Dual degree: M.Sc.-M.Tech.
Master of Technology (M.Tech.)
Dual degree: M.Tech.-PhD.
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.)
20. POSTGRADUATE ADMISSIONS
November-December
and admit students as per the existing procedure.
20.1 Categories of Admission
A candidate can be admitted in any one of the following categories
Full-time regular
Full-time sponsored
offered in a combination of these modes (like fully sponsored part-time program).
i) Full-time Regular
supported by a project of the institute will be considered a full-time regular student.
ii) Full-time Sponsored
years of relevant industrial/R&D/academic experience.
full-time regular student.
establishment/academic
in the campus to complete the minimum residency requirements.
v) Executive (only for M. Tech.)
A professional who can carry out/complete the programme requirement in
An accelerated fashion (minimum in 12 months), OR
Accumulates credits as per convenience and petitions a degree in a maximum of 6 years.
contact mode and limited direct interaction
20.2 Eligibility
prescribe any requirements over and above, subject to the approval of the Senate.
Senate from time to time.
20.2.1 Admission to M. Sc. Program (Regular)
following two avenues.
university/institute
category 4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR a first-class as specified by the university/institute.
20.2.2 Admission to M Sc M Tech Dual Degree Program (Regular)
through any one of the following two avenues.
university/institute
category 4.4 for SC/ST) on a scale of 8) OR a first-class as specified by the university/institute.
20.2.3 Admission to M Tech Program (Regular)
and Veterinary Sciences or in a related field
university/institute
on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute.
written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur.
20.2.4 Admission to MTech Program
(Executive/Part-time/ External/Sponsored)
Veterinary Science or in a related field.
university/institute
on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute.
laboratories/Academic
The applicant must qualify the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur.
20.2.5 Admission to M .Tech. Ph.D. Dual Degree Program (Regular)
Veterinary Science or in a related field
university/institute
on a scale of 8) or a first-class as specified by the university/institute.
written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur.
20.2.6 Admission to Ph.D. Program (Regular)
of any organization in India or abroad.
least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST),
CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor s degree,
GEN/OBC (65% for SC/ST).
(QIP), Defence Personnel
of Chairman, Senate.
20.2.8. Admission of Indian Nationals Residing Abroad (INRA) and Foreign Nationals
of applying for admission.
Department will conduct VC based interview for ascertaining suitability of the candidate.
Chairperson, Senate through the Chairperson, AC.
20.2.9 Admission to Ph.D (sponsored/external/part-time)
academic program in India or abroad.
least 6.0/10 CPI or CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST),
CGPA for GEN/GEN-EWS/OBC (55% for SC/ST) in bachelor s degree,
GEN/OBC (65% for SC/ST).
laboratories/Academic
The applicant must qualify the written test and/or interview conducted by IIT Jodhpur.
20.3 Admission of Non-Degree Students
other academic facilities.
routed through the office of Dean R&D.
Students so admitted will be governed by all rules, regulations and discipline of the Institute.
20.4 Reservation Policy
The reservation policy of Government of India will be followed.
21 PG REGISTRATION
21.1 Limits on Registration
Maximum and minimum number of credits a student can register in different programs:
credits in a semester.
Regular semester/Summer Term
different categories
Regular Semester
Executive (Accelerated)
Executive (Normal)
Executive (Slow-Paced)
Executive (Part Time)
Full-time (Regular/Sponsored)
Executive (Accelerated)
Executive (Normal)
Executive (Slow-Paced)
Full-time (Regular)
Full-time (Sponsored)
to that of an M.Tech. (Regular/External/Part-time) student.
the Regular semester
Full-time Regular
21.1.1 Registration Kept Alive (RKA)
status for a maximum of 6 semesters.
dual degree Programme
required to complete his/her candidacy requirements by the end of the fifth semester.
such changes of registration shall be reported to the Senate.
counted towards his/her Ph.D. course work requirements.
Part-Time/External
Ph.D. programme. A student requesting such a conversion must:
i) have successfully completed his/her candidacy requirement;
ii) get the request endorsed by the supervisor(s) and the DRC;
21.5 Maximum Duration of a Program
- 8 registered semester
Part-time/External/Executive)
Part-time/External)
of sponsored candidates.
Students may request for RKA to Dean (Academics) through DRC.
21.5 Course Registration
during her/his Masters or Bachelors program.
22 ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS
student for each contact hour to meet academic demand of the course.
LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Sc.
Distribution of contact and beyond
1 hour of Lecture
1 hour of Tutorial
1 hour of Project#
#Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion,
LTP-structure and credit assignment for M.Tech./Ph.D.
Distribution of contact and beyond
1 hour of Lecture
1 hour of Tutorial
1 hour of Project#
1 hour of Thesis
#Contact hour for project refers to the involvement of students in the laboratory, discussion,
22.2 Course categories for Masters programmes
1) Compulsory Course (MC)
2) Programme Elective (ME)
3) Open Elective (MO)
4) Project works (MP)
5) Non-graded (NG)
22.3 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. Students
Course categories and academic requirements for M.Sc. students are given below in Table 22.3.
Programs/ Credits to be earned for MSc students
Minimum Credits to be earned
M.Sc. (Chemistry)
M.Sc. (Mathematics)
Minimum Credits to be earned For MTech students
Minimum Credits to be earned
M.Tech (Sensors and Internet of Things)
M.Tech (Cyber Physical System)
M.Tech (Thermofluids Engineering)
M.Tech (Advanced Manufacturing
Engineering and Design)
M.Tech (Metallurgical and Materials
M.Tech (Artificial Intelligence)
M.Tech (Computer Science and
M.Tech (Bioscience and Bioengineering)
M.Tech (Data and Computational
22.5 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Sc. - M.Tech. Dual Degree
22.6 Academic Credit Requirements for M.Tech. - Ph.D. Dual Degree
below in Table 22.5.
Minimum Credits to be earned for dual degree MTech and PhD students
Minimum Credits to be earned
(Sensors and Internet of Things)
Physical System)
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree
(Communication and Signal
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree
(Thermofluids Engineering)
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree
(Manufacturing Engineering)
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree (Design
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree
(Metallurgical and Materials
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree
(Computer Science and
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree
(Artificial Intelligence)
M.Tech-Ph.D Dual Degree
(Bioscience and Bioengineering)
Bachelors program and take necessary corrective action by suggesting alternative courses
22.7 Academic Credit Requirements for Ph.D. Students
The minimum credits to be earned through courses is listed in Table 22.6.
Credit Requirements for PhD students
M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering)
in an Engineering discipline
M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline
B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering)
in an Engineering discipline
M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a
Science, Humanities or Social
Science discipline
22.8 Academic Performance Requirements
22.8.1 Minimum performance for continuation and Graduation in a program
The minimum CGPA requirement for continuation and graduation in a program is given in below
Minimum CGPA requirements
M.Sc. (only graduation
Dual Degree (M.Sc. and
Dual Degree (M.Tech. and
7.5 at the completion of
22.8.2 Continuing criteria for M.Sc.
The student must earn at least 20 credits at the end of the second semester for
continuation in the program.
22.8.3 Minimum performance for continuation Assistantship/Fellowship
Assistantship/Fellowship
Minimum CGPA requirements for Continuation of Assistantship/
Continuation of Assistantship/
Dual Degree (M.Tech. and Ph.D.)
term or mid-semester break.
A PhD student cannot avail leave for more than 15 days at a stretch
An M.Tech./M.Sc. student cannot avail leave for more than 10 days at a stretch
without assistantship during that period.
23.2 Other Leaves
counted towards the maximum permissible duration of the programme.
Any other leave may also be permissible as per the guidelines of MHRD.
23.3 Semester Withdrawal
four or more weeks in any semester will result in automatic withdrawal from that semester.
programme for the student.
23.4 Academic Leave
Academic leave can be requested for any of the following reasons, such as
Library work- because of a specialized collection at a particular library
Experimental work/training using specialized facility not available at IITJ
Attending conferences/workshops/summer/winter schools/symposium
Collaborative work as part of joint M.Tech./Ph.D. supervision
indicated in his research proposal
A student may be allowed to spend a maximum duration of one year on academic leave.
certified by SRC and approved by DRC.
24. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
assistantship/scholarship
under regular full-time program. The eligibility criteria are as per the following:
24.1 M.Sc. Program
Merit-cum-Means fellowship as per Institute norms.
24.2 M.Sc.-M.Tech. Dual-Degree Program
the second year with
have qualified GATE can have financial support from MHRD or project fund.
24.3 M.Tech. Program
student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines.
24.4 Executive M Tech Program
24.5 M.Tech. Ph.D. Dual Degree Program
regular Ph.D. students.
24.6 Ph.D. Program
the norms of IIT Jodhpur.
program)/Master's
GATE/NET(JRF)/NBHM
norms/or equivalent applicable for non-science departments.
post-bachelor's degree
A student may be exempted from GATE as per MHRD guidelines.
the qualifier requirement.
Teaching/Research
EVALUATION OF M. TECH./M.SC. PROJECT
students and supervisor(s).
that Award of letter grade would be as per relative grading policy.
evaluated by his supervisor.
DUAL DEGREE PROGRAM
26.1 Thesis Supervisor(s)
26.1.1 Selection of Ph.D. Candidates
The selection should be based on merit and capability of the candidate to conduct research.
the candidate at the time of selection.
26.1.2 Appointment of Thesis Supervisor(s)
assigned at the time of selection.
students and supervisor(s).
must be completed by the end of the first semester
Committee)/Coordinator
(Interdisciplinary
Research Program) would advise until the student is assigned to a regular supervisor(s).
supervisor can be allowed with the approval of Chairman, Senate.
student/supervisor(s)
(Academics) and approval of the Chairman, Senate.
point of view the Institute will have no obligation to the external supervisor.
26.1.3 Caretaker Supervisor/Additional supervisor
(Interdisciplinary
additional supervisor needs to be appointed on the suggestion of the supervisor.
supervisor can opt for either an additional supervisor or a caretaker supervisor.
before the supervisor s retirement/resignation.
Research Committee (DRC)
Professor/Associate
Professor/Associate
of DRC and will be proposed by the head. The tenure for the DRC will be 2 years.
Composition of Interdisciplinary Research Committee (IRC)
Professor/Associate
for the IRC will be 2 years. The IRC will be approved by the Dean (Academics).
26.2 Change of Research Supervisor
realignment of student s research program will happen under the supervision of the DRC/IRC.
26.3 Student Research Committee (SRC)
26.3.1 Composition of SRC
department (maybe outside the Institute also).
supervisor(s), recommended by the DRC/IRC and approved by Dean (Academics).
The appointment of SRC should be completed by the end of the first semester.
DRC/IRC to Dean (Academics) for record.
completion of the program.
26.4 Annual Progress Monitoring Meeting (APM)
Satisfactory/Non-Satisfactory
Non-satisfactory
implementational
and scheduling guidelines are suggested
The first APM will be conducted after the successful completion of qualifier requirements.
supervisor(s) through the SRC for record.
approved by Dean (academics)
Qualifier requirements of Ph.D. Student
Ph. D. student and for a Ph. D. candidate to be eligible for the enhanced SRF fellowship.
Completed course requirements with the minimum CGPA specified in Section 22.8.1
Cleared comprehensive examination
Successful presentation on state of the art of the chosen field of research
Successful presentation and defense of Research proposal
the beginning of the seventh semester.
26.5.1 Comprehensive Examination of Ph. D. /M.Tech-Ph.D Student
field of research.
Committee of the Department/IDRP.
The Comprehensive Examination will consist of a written test with three papers.
knowledge in that area.
student. These three papers may be selected from across the departments.
of SRC formation.
decide to appear for three papers on the same day or on different days.
the course requirements and satisfied the minimum specified CGPA requirement.
within six months of the first attempt.
Comprehensive Examination to be completed by the students:
Ph.D. : within 3 semesters
Direct Ph.D. and MTech - PhD Dual Degree: within 5 semesters
26.5.2 State of Art Seminar (SOTA)
grade in SOTA awarded by SRC for becoming eligible to present his research proposal.
26.5.3 Research Proposal
26.6. Candidacy for the Ph.D. Degree
students who are admitted to the candidacy will be allowed to submit Ph.D. thesis.
26.7 Relaxation in M.Tech. -Ph.D. dual degree program
part-time/external
conditions for part-time/external conversion are satisfied.
26.8 Cancellation of Registration
or who has not enrolled will be liable for cancellation.
maximum permissible period specified in Section 21.5 will be liable for cancellation.
assessment of the research work, through a pre-synopsis report, by SRC.
quantity of the work for submission as a Ph.D. thesis.
on the recommendation of SRC.
asked to present the synopsis again.
consideration of the SRC.
journal/refereed
quality of journals/conference).
26.10 Thesis submission and Evaluation
should be followed
The examiners shall have at least 6 years of Post-Ph.D. experience;
No two proposed examiners shall be from the same organization; and
The examiners can be Faculty Members or Scientists, of standing and repute.
Chairman, Senate may ask for additional names for examiners
Supervisor(s) shall be the examiners of the Thesis.
external examiner.
One of the external examiners shall attend the Thesis Defense.
from the date of receipt of the Thesis.
(Academics) shall request the Supervisor(s) to hold the Thesis Defense by the student.
suggestions/corrections
Thesis and defend the contention of the Thesis.
of Ph.D. degree to the student.
27. GRADUATION REQUIREMENTS
requirements laid down in Clauses 27.1 to 27.4 below.
27.1 Minimum Residential Requirement
Minimum residential requirement
Qualifications at the time of joining the
Minimum Duration
(in semesters) of
All qualifying degrees
All qualifying degrees
M.Tech. Programs
All qualifying degrees
All qualifying degrees
All qualifying degrees
Full-time Regular
M.Tech., M.E. or M.Sc. (Engineering) in an
Engineering discipline
M.Sc. degree in a Science discipline
B.Tech., B.E. or B.Sc. (Engineering) in an
Engineering discipline
M.Sc., M.A. and M.Phil. degree in a Science,
Humanities or Social Science discipline
All qualifying degrees
All qualifying degrees
Ph.D., while meeting the minimum CGPA requirements as mentioned in Section 22.09.
27.3 No Dues Clearance
deemed necessary by Dean (Academics)
27.4 No case of Disciplinary Action
any case of indiscipline pending against her/him.
27.5 Award of Degrees
27.5.1 Provisional Certificate
Chairman, Senate.
27.5.2 Degree Certificate